### Software Design and Engineering
<p>For the software design and engineering artifacts, the specific components that showcase my skills and abilities are based upon the addition of multiple React components that are responsible for functionality such as returning/displaying sleep-metrics in the form of a line chart, integrating APIs that expand the functionality of my application, and creating a user-friendly UI (user interface) that allows the user to intuitively CRUD their data entries. Each tab within my application has an explicit function that isolates specific functionality without overwhelming the user. Comments also explicitly and concisely detail program syntax increasing the readability of my source code.</p>

### Justification
<p>I determined that the artifacts within my sleep-tracking application would be an advantageous addition to my ePortfolio since the development of a MERN-stack application demonstrates comprehension of software design/engineering, algorithms and data structures, and databases. This comprehension stems from the ability to develop and integrate front and back-end architecture to meet the required functionality of the application and user’s needs.</p>

### Reflection
<p>The process of enhancing the MERN stack template began with planning the functionality and complexity of my application. I wanted to alter and expand upon the exercise-tracking application template by incorporating functionality such as API calls and additional database schemas. Also, providing the user with a sleep-metrics line chart will allow them to track their sleep duration from their sleep journal entries.</p>
<p>One challenge that I faced while developing my project was integrating API request and response data into React components and states, especially for the HTTP request methods that required user parameters. Concepts such as string interpolation with template literals as the user’s parameters alleviated this hurdle and allowed me to integrate URI (Uniform Resource Identifier) component encoding for increased security.</p>
<p>Since this sleep-tracking application was my first project using the MERN stack, professor-provided feedback was essential in the creation and revisions of my project. The feedback given from each milestone provided me with suggestions to improve my final project and the narrative that would encompass the overall aim of the project and ePortfolio. With each milestone covering software design/engineering, algorithms and data structures, and databases, I would integrate the feedback into both my narratives and project revisions.</p>
