## Professional Self-Assessment
<p>After completing my coursework throughout Southern New Hampshire University’s computer science program, retrospectively evaluating the skills, concepts, lessons learned, and building my ePortfolio, I have concluded that computer science requires an open mindset and the endeavor to continuously learn and try new technologies. That undertaking could be learning a new programing language, developing in a new IDE (intergrated development environment), importing or building off of a new library or framework, taking part in a new development methodology, or any other technology or concept relating to computer science. While the endeavor to continuously learn new technologies may be outside of my comfort zone, I can lean on the development skillset that I have been building since I began the computer science program to assist me in the endeavor to continuously learn.</p>
<p>Team collaboration is also paramount in utilizing the various technologies that computer science’ encompasses. I learned early on in my academic journey that professor and student feedback is essential in developing coursework that I can be proud of. My fourth-year internship also taught me that team collaboration carries more importance than any other skill I’ve learned. Without coworker feedback and support, the organization’s as well as my own workload would stagnate and little to no innovation would be possible. </p>
<p>The aim of my academic and internship endeavors is to deliver assignments or products to the best of my ability. It is critical to communicate with the stakeholder, whether that stakeholder is a professor with an explicit rubric or a customer with specific requirements and expectations. Iterative working prototypes and stakeholder communication allow for dynamic alterations to the project throughout the development cycle with the aim of slowly molding the working prototype to a quality product that meets or exceeds the stakeholder's expectations.</p>
<p>To develop a project that meets or exceeds the expectations of the stakeholder, foundational concepts such as software design and engineering, algorithms and data structures, and databases must contain the complexity and functionality expected of the stakeholder. </p>

### Fitting All of the Pieces Together
The following links will elaborate on the skills and concepts I have learned throughout Southern New Hampshire University’s computer science program. 

[Project Overview](./projectOverview.html)

[Software Design and Engineering](./artSoftwareDesEng.html)  
[Algorithms and Data Structures](./artAlgoDataStruct.html)  
[Databases](./artDatabases.html)  

### What is the Artifact?
The sleep-tracking application development began in May of 2021 and was completed in late June 2021 (21EW5) for Southern New Hampshire University’s **Computer Science Capstone (CS-499-T5475)**. The artifact presented in my ePortfolio is a sleep-tracking SPA (single-page application) that was developed using the MERN stack (MongoDB, ExpressJS, ReactJS, NodeJS). The sleep-tracking application can create, read, update, and delete (CRUD) usernames, sleep goals, and sleep journals. Additional features include HTTP (Hypertext Transfer Protocol) request methods to open-source APIs (application programming interface) such as NASA’s [Astronomy Picture of the Day](https://apod.nasa.gov/apod/astropix.html) that returns an astronomy-related image with a description each day. I also included a dream word interpreter that displays the user’s journal entry, allows them to input a word into the search bar, and the DataMuse API call returns adjectives relating to the user-selected word to assist in the interpretation of the user’s dream journal entry. Sleep metrics are also displayed to the user via a line chart that extracts the duration of the user's sleep journal into the line chart's dataset.

### Justification
I determined that the artifacts within my sleep-tracking application would be an advantageous addition to my ePortfolio since the development of a MERN-stack application demonstrates comprehension of software design/engineering, algorithms and data structures, and databases. This comprehension stems from the ability to develop and integrate front and back-end architecture to meet the required functionality of the application and user’s needs. 

### Reflection
<p>The process of enhancing the MERN stack template began with planning the functionality and complexity of my application. I wanted to alter and expand upon the exercise-tracking application template by incorporating functionality such as API calls and additional database schemas. Also, providing the user with a sleep-metrics line chart will allow them to track their sleep duration from their sleep journal entries.</p>
<p>One challenge that I faced while developing my project was integrating API request and response data into React components and states, especially for the HTTP request methods that required user parameters. Concepts such as string interpolation with template literals as the user’s parameters alleviated this hurdle and allowed me to integrate URI (Uniform Resource Identifier) component encoding for increased security.</p>
<p>Since this sleep-tracking application was my first project using the MERN stack, professor-provided feedback was essential in the creation and revisions of my project. The feedback given from each milestone provided me with suggestions to improve my final project and the narrative that would encompass the overall aim of the project and ePortfolio. With each milestone covering software design/engineering, algorithms and data structures, and databases, I would integrate the feedback into both my narratives and project revisions.</p>

